---
title: "Release G4.0.1"
label: "G4.0.1"
pubDate: October 23 2021
---

:::important

When upgrading from `G3` → `G4.0.0`, you may have had your login sessions on various websites unavailable. This was due to the setting of [First Party Isolation](https://www.ghacks.net/2017/11/22/how-to-enable-first-party-isolation-in-firefox/) to **ON** by default. This privacy focused preference only allows cookies, cache and local storage accessible by websites on the same domain and creates a separate session to when it is disabled. In `G4.0.1` it is now **OFF** by default and your previous G3 session will be restored. If you started creating new sessions and logins in G4 and would like to have them still used, you can type `about:config` in the address bar, search for `privacy.firstparty.isolate` and toggle it to `true` once more.

:::

✨ New

* The Waterfox Classic styled theme "Australis" is now available! You can switch to it in `about:addons` → "Themes".

✓ Fixed

* Linux users original profile location should now be picked up again.
* Fixed an issue where Private Tab would conflict with extensions such as Simple Tab Groups.
* https://addons.mozilla.org should recognise Waterfox once more and allow you to install addons directly.
* You can now enable syncing of your settings. It is still off by default.
* You can now modify the UI density.

ℹ️ Changed

* First Party Isolation is now off by default.

❌ Unresolved

* `about:preferences` may be missing certain settings and render incorrectly.
* The status bar is missing default items (zoom, full screen, screenshot).
* Theme previews may show up in greyscale rather than their actual colours.
* Addon version numbers are not displayed next to their title in `about:addons`
