---
title: '6.5.0 Beta 1'
date: 2023-09-06
slug: 'docs/releases/6.5.0-beta-1'
---

The first beta of the ESR `128` branch is now available. The underlying architecture for how Waterfox is developed is being overhauled and as such warrants a major version number increase to `7.0`, therefore this release branch will be `6.5.x`. The 'G' is also being dropped from the version number.

### Changes

- A re-jig of the system requirements to run Waterfox. We now expect the same minimum as [Windows 10](https://download.microsoft.com/download/c/1/5/c150e1ca-4a55-4a7e-94c5-bfc8c2e785c5/Windows%2010%20Minimum%20Hardware%20Requirements.pdf). For posterity, that essentially means for our x86 builds, any CPU that supports `SSE3`[^1].
- We have now bumped the "tuned" CPU code generation to match Skylake[^2] processor instruction sets. If you have a Intel Skylake (or equivalent AMD processor) or better, there should be better performance for you.

### New Features

- You should now see a Table of Contents in the Preferences page, for easier navigation of settings.
- You can now set any URL as the new tab page, by setting the `browser.newtab.url` preference in `about:config`[^3].
- We have now re-implemented the old school password manager, available at `chrome://browser/content/passwordManager.xhtml`. This will eventually be available at `about:passwords`.

### Planned features

- Re-implementation of Live Bookmarks (RSS feed support).
- Rework of the onboarding, in collaboration with black7375.
- Rework of some preference pages, in collaboration with black7375.

### Known Issues

- Setting Waterfox as the default browser on Windows does not work.
- "Autohide" behavior of the Waterfox vertical tabs does not work for F11 fullscreen mode.
- An error is reported when the vertical tabs options page is opened.
- "Bookmark Selected Tabs" command in the menu of the sidebar header does not work.
- Items in the menu of the vertical tabs header are shown with same "gear" icon - this is due to missing Waterfox specific icon resources.
- Tab preview on vertical tabs does not work with browser.tabs.hoverPreview.enabled=true.
- F1 key does not toggle the Waterfox vertical tabs.
- "Reset to default" operation in the toolbar customization sometimes produces missing "Waterfox vertical tabs" button problem.

---

[^1]: The specific hardware instruction sets required are `CMPXCHG16B`, `LAHF/SAHF`, and `PrefetchW`.
[^2]: If you do not have an Intel Skylake (or equivalent or lesser) processor, you will still be able to run Waterfox.
[^3]: Please note, if using a root domain, make sure to append a trailing slash `/`, otherwise the address bar will be focused when opening a new tab.
