---
title: 'G4.0.2.1'
date: 2021-11-04
slug: 'docs/releases/G4.0.2.1'
---

:::important

ONLY if you upgraded from `G3` → `G4.0.0`, you may have had your login sessions on various websites unavailable. This was due to the setting of [First Party Isolation](https://www.ghacks.net/2017/11/22/how-to-enable-first-party-isolation-in-firefox/) to **ON** by default. This privacy focused preference only allows cookies, cache and local storage accessible by websites on the same domain and creates a separate session to when it is disabled. In `G4.0.1` it is now **OFF** by default and your previous G3 session will be restored. If you started creating new sessions and logins in G4 and would like to have them still used, you can type `about:config` in the address bar, search for `privacy.firstparty.isolate` and toggle it to `true` once more.

:::

✨ New

- The Waterfox Classic styled theme "Australis" is now available! You can switch to it in `about:addons` → "Themes".

✓ Fixed

- Some issues when upgrading from G3 -> G4.
- `about:preferences` no longer renders incorrectly in certain situations.
- Modified "Recent Activity" settings will now apply.
- When you open a "New Window", the address bar will now focus correctly.

ℹ️ Changed

- You can now toggle `extensions.getAddons.cache.enabled` to populate extension information in `about:addons`.
- DNS-over-HTTPS is now disabled by default - you must opt-in if you wish to use it.
- There are now additional preferences in `about:preferences#privacy`.

❌ Unresolved

- The status bar does not include default items (zoom, full screen, screenshot).
- Addon version numbers are not displayed next to their title in `about:addons`.
- There are issues installing bootstrapped addons, resulting in an "addon is corrupt" error message.
