---
title: "G4.1.0"
label: "G4.1.0"
pubDate: April 6 2022
slug: "en-us/releases/G4.1.0"
---

✨ New

* Addon version numbers once more show next to their names in `about:addons`
* You can now disable automatic updates in `about:preferences` → `General` → `Waterfox Updates`
* Startpage is now the default search when performance searches in Private Tab and Private Window.
* Users on Linux who wish to use the [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API) GeoLocation API can now enable it in `about:preferences` → Languages → Geolocation API
* Tabs will now unload automatically when your system is running low on memory.
* Tabs can now be manually unloaded after enabling the preference in `about:preferences` → General → Tabs. You can then right click on a tab and unload it.

✓ Fixed

* Chrome Web Store extensions should now install properly once again.
* Back and forward buttons on various mice now work properly in Waterfox, instead of acting as middle-click.
* Sometimes non-private tabs would be restored as private tabs. This will no longer occur.
* Various fixes to the default Lepton theme [[1](https://github.com/black7375/Firefox-UI-Fix/releases/tag/v4.6.0)][[2](https://github.com/black7375/Firefox-UI-Fix/releases/tag/v4.6.1)][[3](https://github.com/black7375/Firefox-UI-Fix/releases/tag/v4.6.2)].
* Various Japanese translation improvements by @surapunoyousei

ℹ️ Changed

* Minimum requirements have been slightly reduced to `SSE4.1` from `SSE4.2`.
* Unprefix `-moz-fit-content`. `-fit-content` show now work without the `-moz` prefix.
* The `<dialog>` [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/web/html/element/dialog) element is now enabled.
* References to `his` and `her` have been replaced with `their` where relevant.

❌ Unresolved

* Users who have a privacy oriented search engine such as DuckDuckGo enabled will have Private Tab and Private Window searches be performed on Startpage. This *should not* be the case. A fix is in the works and should be available soon.